using Renzulli to differentiate okay
here's the problem if you're like most
teachers you've got a classroom full of
20 or more students and you've got a big
long list of required standards you need
to teach some of those kids are really
interested in the subject material and
like to learn in whole group instruction
and express what they've learned in
written form some of them are more
interested in other things and they
won't get engaged in anything in which
they are not interested some of them are
totally disengaged and I'm prepared
some of them would rather learn
independently or in small groups or
through games or role-playing your
principal is worried about classroom
management there's someone from the
district office checking in to make sure
you're staying on a quick pace there are
parents at the door who are concerned
you're pushing their kids too hard and
there are parents who think you're not
pushing their kids hard enough you've
only got three computers and you don't
have much time and hovering over all of
this is the ghostly specter of those
educational pioneers you found so
inspiring back when you were getting
your teaching license those teachers and
researchers who had you so convinced
that you could be the inspiring creative
engaging teacher you know that all your
students deserve and you're working so
hard to be that teacher well that's why
we made Renzulli Renzulli is not another
thing on your plate Renzulli is a tool
designed by educators maybe some of the
same ones you read about back in the day
to help you with all that stuff on your
plate let's start at the beginning
Renzulli defines differentiation is
matching the required content those
glorious state standards with each
individual students interests learning
styles abilities and product styles so
as you might imagine you can't even
begin to differentiate if you don't know
your students interests learning styles
abilities and product styles it's like
trying to find your way without a map
well RINs only finds out how your
students learn how they best express
what they know what they're interested
in and what their strengths are so now
you get your map so now you know whether
that lesson plan you're going to try
next week will work before you give it
you can run reports and instantly find
out what strategies will work best for
your class Renzulli will even tell you
how to group your students by learning
styles so the independent workers can do
their thing the technology kids can
squeeze out a little more screen time
and the lecture listeners can come to
the front and Renzulli will even find
online resources to match each student's
interests so let's say you have to teach
a unit on gravitational pull and you've
got students who are interested in
athletics social action and Performing
Arts but you don't find gravitational
pull all that attractive well all you
need to do is tell Renzulli you want
them to learn about gravity and Renzulli
will find resources that bridge the
content with the motivation so your
students can get engaged with baseball
science to learn how gravity affects a
thrown ball build your own aqua fire to
learn how gravity applies to real-world
social problems and create a dance
routine to learn how gravity plays a
role in choreography so your students
are getting content that's interesting
presented in a way that's appealing so
you can still keep on pace with your
standards and run an impressively
well-managed class as well as showing
those parents how you're challenging and
engaging their children at just the
right level you're doing it you're
bringing creativity and joy back to
learning you're managing that to-do list
and you're boosting your students test
scores and that's the power of
differentiation made easy that's the
power of Renzulli